---
layout: post
title: Socks
subtitle: Lab 2
# gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
# gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
# tags: [test]
# comments: true
author: Henry Greenhut
---
Author: Henry Greenhut
Collaborators: Arun Lal, Naomi Gelfer, Nate Garelik
<br/>

---
**STEP 1: Creating the sock dataset**

To create the sock dataset, first I had to access a sock api using my key as a paremeter. The api works by responding with information about the sock whose index is specified as a paremeter in the request. The problem is that I didn't know the total number of socks, and therefore didn't know which indexes to request.

So, I build a while loop that, starting from 0 and increasing by 1, requests every sock until it does not receive a valid response. 
Every request will have the same base url: https://afeingoldhm.pythonanywhere.com/socks?key=\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*&idx= (replace astericks with your own key). To request every sock, I increment the index until the requests stop being successful. 
```python
while not done:
  response = requests.get(url + str(index))
  if response.ok:
    data = response.json()
    # Store the sock
    index += 1
    print(index)
  else:
    done = True
```

Inside the while loop, I store information about the sock in a custom sock object. This is not necessary -- I could just write the information as I receive it, but if I ever wanted to do more with the socks in the future, having them already conveniently organized into sock objects could be useful.
```python
class Sock:
  def __init__(self, name, variation, color1, color2):
    self.name = name
    self.variation = variation
    self.color1 = color1
    self.color2 = color2
  def __str__(self):
    return f"{self.name},{self.variation},{self.color1},{self.color2}"
```

My sock class also has a custom print method to easily be converted into a csv. Where there is the '# Store the sock" comment in the first block of code, there are the following lines of code which add instances of the sock class to my list of socks:
```python
s = Sock(data["Name"], data["Variation"], data["Color 1"], data["Color 2"])
socks.append(s)
```
Finally, we have a list of sock objects. I simply loop through them and write them to a new csv:

```python
with open ("finalsocks.csv", "w") as w:
  w.write("Name,Variation,Color1,Color2\n")
  for i in socks:
    w.write(str(i))
    w.write("\n")
```
**STEP 2: Analyzing the dataset**

Now that we have the dataset, we can analyze it. First, we open back up the spreadsheet:
```python
with open ("finalsocks.csv", "r") as f:
    data = csv.reader(f)
    next(data)
    sock_list = list(data)
```
We want to determine which socks have the most variations. Each row on the spreadsheet is another variation for a sock. So, by counting how many rows each sock has, we determine how many variations it has. I created a dictionary of variations and, looping through the spreadsheet, counted how many times each name appeared:

```python
variations_dict = {}
for i in sock_list:
    if i[0] not in variations_dict:
        variations_dict[i[0]] = 1
    else:
        variations_dict[i[0]] = variations_dict[i[0]] + 1
```
Once we have our dictionary of variations, we can loop through it again to determine the highest amount of variations any sock has.
```python
count_variations = 0
for i in variations_dict:
    if variations_dict[i] > count_variations:
        count_variations = variations_dict[i]
```
And once we have that number (in this case, it was 8), we can find all the socks with the highest amount of variations:
```python
variations_socks = []
for i in variations_dict:
    if variations_dict[i] == count_variations:
        variations_socks.append(i)
```
Finally, we have determined the socks with the most amount of variations (8):
['argyle crew socks', 'color-blocked socks', 'frilly knee-high socks', 'holey tights', 'kiddie socks', 'mixed-tweed socks', 'no-show socks', 'semi-opaque socks', 'semi-opaque tights', 'sequin leggings', 'simple-accent socks', 'striped socks', 'striped tights', 'tube socks', 'ultra no-show socks', 'vivid leggings', 'vivid socks', 'vivid tights']

---

We also want to find how many socks of each color there are. In a similar manner to my variations dictionary, I created a colors dictionary. Looping through the list of socks, I counted how many times each color in the 'color1' field appeared. I did the same for the 'color2' field, after first checking that there wasn't the same color as the color1 field:
```python
for i in sock_list:
    if i[2] not in colors_dict:
        colors_dict[i[2]] = 1
    else:
        colors_dict[i[2]] += 1
    if i[3] != i[2]:
        if i[3] not in colors_dict:
            colors_dict[i[3]] = 1
        else:
            colors_dict[i[3]] += 1
```
This gives us a dictionary that tells us how many socks there are of each color:
{'Pink': 44, 'Red': 43, 'Aqua': 33, 'Orange': 28, 'Purple': 39, 'Green': 51, 'Blue': 48, 'Yellow': 34, 'White': 89, 'Black': 65, 'Beige': 16, 'Gray': 33, 'Brown': 11, 'Colorful': 14}
